.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/RCS/rgb2ycbcr.1,v 1.5 1995/07/07 23:29:04 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH RGB2YCBCR 1 "September 26, 1994"
.SH NAME
rgb2ycbcr \- convert non-YCbCr
.SM TIFF
images to a YCbCr
.SM TIFF
image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rgb2ycbcr
[
.B \-c
.I compression
] [
.B \-h
.I hsample
] [
.B \-v
.I vsample
] [
.B \-r
.I rows/strip
]
.I "src1.tif src2.tif ... dst.tif"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rgb2ycbcr
converts
.SM RGB
color, greyscale, or bi-level
.SM TIFF
images to YCbCr images by
transforming and sampling pixel data.
If multiple files are specified on the command line,
.I rgb2ycbcr
converts all but the last file, writing a
separate directory for each source
in the destination file.
.PP
By default, chrominance samples are created by sampling
2 by 2 blocks of luminance values.
The
.B \-h
and
.B \-v
options can be used to specify alternate horizontal
and vertical sampling dimensions, respectively.
Note that only 1, 2, and 4 should be used for portability.
.PP
By default, output data are compressed with the
.SM LZW
compression scheme.
A different scheme can be selected with the
.B \-c
option; one of:
.I none
(for no compression),
.I packbits
(for PackBits compression),
and
.I lzw
(for
.SM LZW
compression).
.PP
By default, output data are compressed in strips with
the number of rows in each strip selected so that the
size of a strip is never more than 8 kilobytes.
The
.B \-r
option can be used to explicitly set the number of
rows per strip.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
