.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/RCS/strip.3t,v 1.4 1995/07/07 23:29:04 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1993, 1994 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, 1993, 1994 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH TIFFComputeStrip 3T "February 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
TIFFComputeStrip, TIFFNumberOfStrips \- strip-related utility routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "tstrip_t TIFFComputeStrip(TIFF* tif, uint32 row, tsample_t sample)"
.br
.B "tstrip_t TIFFNumberOfStrips(TIFF* tif)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR TIFFComputeStrip
returns the strip that contains the specified coordinates.
A valid strip is always returned;
out-of-range coordinate values are clamped to the bounds of the image.
The
.I row
parameter is always used in calculating a strip.
The
.I sample
parameter is used only if data are organized in separate planes (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =2).
.PP
.IR TIFFNumberOfStrips
returns the number of strips in the image.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFReadEncodedStrip (3T),
.IR TIFFReadRawStrip (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteEncodedStrip (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteRawStrip (3T)
