Changes in TIFF v4.5.1
======================

.. table:: References
    :widths: auto

    ======================  ==========================================
    Current Version         v4.5.1 (:tag:`v4.5.1`)
    Previous Version        :doc:`v4.5.0 <v4.5.0>`
    Master Download Site    `<https://download.osgeo.org/libtiff/>`_
    Master HTTP Site #1     `<http://www.simplesystems.org/libtiff/>`_
    Master HTTP Site #2     `<https://libtiff.gitlab.io/libtiff/>`_
    Master HTTP Site #3     `<http://libtiff.maptools.org/>`_
    ======================  ==========================================

This document provides a summary of significant changes made to the
software between the *previous* and *current* versions (see
above). A fully-detailed change summary is provided by the :file:`ChangeLog` file
included in the release package and by the Git commit history:

.. note::

    This version will be the last one supporting TIFF tools.
    TIFF tools maintenance will be discontinued.
    The source code at this time will still be available
    in the /archive/tools directory.

Major changes
-------------

None

Software configuration changes
------------------------------

* test: add :file:`test_write_read_tags.c`, which writes and then 
  reads and checks nearly all tags defined in :file:`tif_dirinfo.c`.

* Definition of tags reformatted (clang-format off) for better
  readability of tag comments in tiff.h and tif_dirinfo.c

* Do not install libtiff-4.pc when tiff-install is reset.

* test: avoid running tool tests if not built
  (:issue:`421`).

* test: test added within test_ifd_loop_detection.c
  to check loops in SubIFDs that are chained.

* Add versioninfo resource files for DLL and tools
  compiled with Windows MSVC and MINGW.

* Disable clang-formatting for tif_config.h.cmake.in and
  tiffconf.h.cmake.in because sensitive for CMake scripts.

Library changes
---------------

New/improved functionalities:

* Hardcode HOST_FILLORDER to FILLORDER_LSB2MSB and make 'H' flag of
  :c:func:`TIFFOpen` to warn and an alias of FILLORDER_MSB2LSB. 
  :file:`tif_lerc.c`: use WORDS_BIGENDIAN instead of HOST_BIGENDIAN.

* Add DNG tags up to version 1.6.0.0 and some TIFF/EP tags and update documentation.
	- Set most tags to OkToChange=1.
	- Define BATTERYLEVEL tag as ASCII and convert values of rational variant to ASCII.
	- TIFF documentation updated for tags recognized by LibTiff (DNG 1.6 and others).
	- TIFF/EP tags added, which are equivalent to EXIF tags.

* Optimize relative seeking within :c:func:`TIFFSetDirectory`
  by using the learned list of IFD offsets.

* Improve internal IFD offset and directory number map handling.

* manpage: add multi page TIFF and SubIFDs description and read / write example.

* Behavior of :c:func:`TIFFOpen`  mode "r+" in the Windows implementation
  adjusted to that of Linux.

API/ABI breaks:

* None

Bug fixes:

* TIFFDirectory td_fieldsset type changed from unsigned long, which can
  be 32 or 64 bits, to uint32_t (fixes :issue:`484`).

*	tif_ojpeg.c: checking for division by zero (fixes :issue:`554`).

* LZWDecode(): avoid crash when trying to read again from a strip whith
  a missing end-of-information marker (fixes :issue:`548`).

* Fixed runtime error: applying zero offset to null pointer
  in :c:func:`countInkNamesString`.

* tif_ovrcache.c: check :c:func:`TIFFSetSubDirectory` return value (CID 1524573).

* Fixing crash in :c:func:`TIFFUnlinkDirectory` when called with
  directory number zero ("TIFFUnlinkDirectory(**0**)") as well as fixing
  incorrect behaviour when unlinking the first directory.

* tif_luv: check and correct for NaN data in :c:func:`uv_encode`
  (:issue:`530`).

* :c:func:`TIFFClose` avoid NULL pointer dereferencing
  (:issue:`515`).

* tif_hash_set.c: include tif_hash_set.h after tif_config.h
  to let a chance for GDAL symbol renaming trick.

* Fax3: fix failure to decode some fax3 number_of_images
  and add test for Fax3 decoding issues
  (:issue:`513`).

* :c:func:`TIFFSetDirectory` and :c:func:`TIFFWriteDirectorySec` 
  avoid harmless unsigned-integer-overflow
  (due to gdal oss-fuzz #54311 and #54343).

* :file:`tif_ojpeg.c`: fix :issue:`554` by checking for division by zero
  in OJPEGWriteHeaderInfo().

* LZWDecode(): avoid crash when trying to read again from a strip whith
  a missing end-of-information marker (:issue:`548`).

Tools changes
-------------

New/improved functionality:

* None

Bug fixes:

*	:program:`tiffcrop`: Consider error return of writeSelections() (fixes :issue:`553`).

* :program:`tiffcrop`: fix memory leak
  (:issue:`475`).

* :program:`tiffcrop`: do not reuse input buffer for subsequent images
  (:issue:`527`).

* :program:`tiffcrop`: Amend rotateImage() not to toggle the input
  (main) image width and length parameters when only cropped image
  sections are rotated. Remove buffptr from region structure
  because never used. Fixes
  :issue:`492`, :issue:`493`, :issue:`494`, :issue:`495`,
  :issue:`499`, :issue:`518`, :issue:`519`.

* :program:`tiffcrop`: correctly update buffersize after rotateImage() 
  (:issue:`520`).

* :program:`tiffcrop`: added check for assumption on composite images. Fixes
  :issue:`496`, :issue:`497`, :issue:`498`, :issue:`500`, :issue:`501`.

* :program:`tiffmedian`: avoid zero num_colors
  (:issue:`477`).

* :program:`fax2ps`: fix buffer overflow in qsort function pcompar
  (:issue:`475`).

* :program:`tiffset`: get filesize to allocate only the required memory
  (:issue:`241`).

* :program:`tiffcrop`: fix :issue:`553` by considering error return of writeSelections().


Contributed software changes
----------------------------

None
